can you just imagine you sit down on the
bus and as a newspaper headline it's a
newspaper headline somebody's reading
big bold capital letters heroin
addiction is that a ten-year high
heroines making a big big comeback in
the city where you live and the person
sitting next to you on the bus says look
look at that look at that headline isn't
that a shame you know what seems to me
so sad is these young people these days
they use it heroin imported all the way
from Afghanistan to use it heroin from
from Myanmar in these far-off countries
and you know back when I was a kid
people used to use heroin that that they
grew right here in their own batch of
hearts you look at this person like what
what what is wrong with you how can you
possibly think that the problem with
heroin like what it is you're
complaining about is that it's imported
from far away that it would somehow be
okay as if it were I don't know organic
and locally grown heroin if if you're
sitting around and talking to people
about let's just say it's even a friend
of yours or an acquaintance you know
somebody who's just been killed by a
hitman
so somebody maybe you don't who it is
you just read the newspaper headline
somebody paid somebody to kill someone
you know and this guy sitting next to on
the bus this member of the public at
large says to you you know it's a shame
young people these days they're
employing hit men they're they're paying
for murder from people from Chicago
people from New York City you know pack
back when I was your age we used to pay
hitmen from from right here at home I
think what what is the matter with you
how can you think that the ethical issue
here is is how local or how far away the
killer is or who you paid
to do this act of violence either you
think this is this is morally
questionable this is morally wrong
because of the act itself in and of
itself either you think it's morally
wrong in both cases whether you hire
someone from Chicago or someone from New
York City or someone from right here in
the city we're having this conversation
or else you don't really think it's
immoral at all
it's not really conceivable that
distance is the factor here that changes
something from being good to bad or from
being evil to being indifferent and yet
this is the excuse we hear all the time
if we're vegans especially if we're
vegans in the public eye especially for
me here on YouTube so I just I just got
this this question again you guys have
heard it in different forms somebody
named Tom wrote into me saying you know
how can food possibly be ethical when
it's flown in in plastic packaging so so
let me get this straight let me get this
straight
you think that strawberries strawberries
if they if they turn up at your grocery
store in a plastic container you think
it's ethical so it's it's completely
identical the plastic containers the
same strawberries are basically the same
but strawberries that are grown locally
those are those are ethical and the
strawberries from further away those are
unethical that's that's your position
right so you can't recognize the
difference
ethically between the pieces of an
animal's corpse and people telling you
they think raising these animals in
captivity and killing these animals to
chop up the pieces of the course of
people who think the animal product is
unethical regardless of whether it's
here mexico chicago sri lanka japan
doesn't matter where it happens that the
product is an ethical the process
of raising the animal and killing the
animal as an ethical their ecological
factors here that may also be an ethical
you can't recognize the difference
between a piece of meat in plastic
packaging and a bowl of strawberries in
plastic packaging because for you what
really matters is the distance is
whether or not it's local local locally
made meat is some morally good and meat
from far away is in full that's that's
your perspective and that's so important
that you can't recognize any of the
other issues then fixing or talking
about one precludes you from thinking
clearly about about the other it's is
really that big a deal so look guys
this is a little bit different depending
on what country you're living in around
the world let's say you have a friend
who's got to go for for heart surgery
heart surgery pretty common pretty
common this friend says to you well you
know the hospital downtown here the
hospital just walking distance here it's
a bad Hospital a year it's dirty
I hear they keep having complaints from
the government inspector that they're
violating health code that's not
sanitary
I hear the doctors take bribes I hear
some of the doctors kind of had some
controversies where they almost lost
their license and you know her bunch of
people died there due to due to medical
malpractice and incompetence with her
surgery but you know what it's a local
hospital
it's the closest hospital therefore it's
the most ethical choice so that's where
I'm gonna go I have my heart surgeon you
say what do you what are you talking
about
what are you talking about if you think
this is something you need to do if you
think heart surgery is important for you
is something you want to do why wouldn't
you consider taking a trip on a bus or
by truck
or by train or by airplane to get heart
surgery somewhere else to get the best
hurt surgery you can possibly get maybe
in another country maybe another city
why would a local hospital be ethically
superior
to a hospital far away and it's the same
thing with this question about meet
people why would a local slaughterhouse
be better than a slaughterhouse that's
far away it just does not make sense
yeah the only other aspect here it's
some of you guys here this is some of
you don't from good old Tom you know it
is like the idea that plastic is so evil
plastic is of such overwhelming moral
significance that the strawberries are
wrapped in plastic that there's there's
really no difference he can recognize
between package of strawberries package
of pork beef okay okay okay I've only
talked to one person who believe this
and that was my daughter at five years
old so she didn't think that at four
years old just lately I assumed her mom
was lecturing her about yeah it's some
source like that maybe was her mom maybe
was a school teacher someone had told
her that oh no no no no buying plastic
is really bad and like somehow buying
plastic is is more of an issue than
buying meat or dairy
you know I you know I asked her why this
is trying to be educational trying to
use use some Socratic method okay so why
do you think this was like an answer was
if you use plastic it ends up in the
ocean you know it ends up floating in
the ocean so maybe again maybe in school
maybe sitting with her mom watching
YouTube she'd seen some vivid images of
this plastic garbage floating in the
ocean so well you know you know plastic
can end up in the ocean if you throw it
in the ocean right if you put it in a
hole in a dump in a landfill if you if
you throw it in the garbage in other
ways there's no way
it can end up in the ocean but I said
this too I said
riddle me this remember this what is it
that's special about plastic yeah I know
something else that that floats in the
ocean you know she's only five years old
he says what I said would pieces of wood
can float in the ocean have you seen
that and you know she'd seen that in a
movie or video or something
oh yeah right logs float in the ocean
piece of wood so would you tell me that
you never want to use wood again that
wood is immortal because wood can be
thrown out and float in the ocean wood
can be stored in the ocean plastic maybe
thrown in the ocean but there's no
coherent argument here to Houston I use
plastic if isn't uh isn't ethical
distinction that that makes sense
guys I commented on Twitter earlier
today the end point of the gay rights
movement the April the end point the
objective of transgender rights you know
transgender movement it ultimately has
to be that the whole world regards being
gay as boring not as special not as
wonderful not as great not as it
standing but as just boring already in a
country like Thailand Thailand Laos very
few countries are like this already in
Thailand a man dressed up like a woman
who goes grocery shopping like at a
big-box grocery store
it's just ignored it's just boring it's
just normal nobody asks about it
nobody's surprised you know people who
are dressing as the gender rather than
the one they were born as it's just
become boring in Thailand it's just
normal the only reason why it's edgy and
shocking is because of a type of
intolerance that one way or another
you're looking at disappearing and the
process of that kind of intolerance
disappearing is going to be very
different in Seattle than it is in
arabia those are the big questions
nobody really wants to talk about what's
gonna happen in saudi arabia what's
gonna happen Indonesia this is these the
real struggles for acceptance of
homosexuality it's not really the
situation that we have so much to worry
about
in moving Seattle closer to Thailand but
hey we could ask those questions to UM
you know the process we're going through
with veganism at some point veganism has
to cease to be shocking veganism has to
cease to be surprising it has to cease
to be special elections before I have a
friend getting a PhD in classical
philosophy so Greek and Latin free I
think mostly gladden Africa what she's
doing these days um and she said she had
a form to fill out for a conference so
some kind of academic classical
philosophy conference for people
attending the conference and there was a
check mark there was dietary
restrictions
other than vegan such a large percentage
of people in this field throughout this
conference were going to be vegan anyway
they didn't ask you if you were vegan or
not they assumed you were vegan and then
they asked you just like oh are you
allergic to peanuts or like is there
something else beyond meat vegan like
wow I've never seen that never heard
that in my life
as hard as it may be for you to imagine
if you're caught up in a political
discourse where being transgender is
shocking or edgy or outrageous you have
to take a step back and not see the
edginess and outrageousness as the point
of the movement or is the objective or
characteristic of the movement right
that's not something essential to the
you know the rights you're seeking the
political position you're advocating for
that's something in essential created by
the context of people around you being
shocked or disturbed or intolerant
what-have-you right it's crushed I move
forth from there and I mean for us as
vegans can we imagine a world where we
don't get
this kind of comment on the internet or
to us or face-to-face where we don't get
told how dare you refuse to eat meat
when you are guilty of buying
strawberries imported from a foreign
land